# Mars-Seismology-Undergraduate-Research-Project
My undergraduate research project encompasses the use of seismic data from the NASA InSight mission to refine our understanding of the structure of the martian core. The primary research question I address is “What are the uncertainties on seismically determined estimates of the core radius of Mars?”. I learned how we can use the most up to date marsquake data recorded by InSight to help us confirm/refine the measurement of the core radius of Mars for this project. I use marsquake data given to me from previous research done to create seismological models to determine the proper time for the ScS window being measured from that data. ScS waves are core reflected S waves from the marsquakes that can give us distance approximations since they bounce off of the core. Their travel times can be used to constrain the depth of the mantle when combined with accurate seismic velocity models of the martian interior. From the ScS window, there are calculations that can be done using seismic velocity models to measure the distance of how far the S waves travelled. I find this information to come up with an updated estimate and uncertainty of the core radius. Previous detections of ScS phases from 6 marsquakes have indicated that the martian core radius is 1830 ± 40 km (Stahler et al., 2021), suggesting an enrichment in light elements. Thus, the goal of this project is to arrive to the conclusion that the core radius is around 1830 ± 40 kilometers. This is the current value that we have for the radius of the liquid metal core of Mars. Since the time of publication, there have been many more high quality marsquakes recorded that may contain ScS phases. In this project, I analyze low-frequency marsquakes not used in previous investigations for signs of ScS. Increasing the number of ScS detections will improve our knowledge of the core radius and associated measurement uncertainties. The InSight mission ended December 15th, 2022, and the data from the full catalog of marsquakes is openly available for public use. This project was advised by professor Ross Maguire, and took me three semesters to complete.
